README.md, before:

# Awesome Development for retro computers and consoles

- [Awesome Development for retro computers and consoles](#awesome-retro)
  - [Commodore 64](#commodore-64)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-c64-assemblers)
    - [Compilers](#retro-c64-compilers)
  - [Commodore Amiga](#commodore-amiga)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-amiga-assemblers)
  - [Sega Genesis](#sega-genesis)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-sega-genesis-assemblers)
    - [Command line tools](#retro-sega-genesis-command-line-tools)
    - [Compilers](#retro-sega-genesis-compilers)
    - [Devkit](#retro-sega-genesis-devkit)
    - [IDE](#retro-sega-genesis-ide)
    - [Hardware](#retro-sega-genesis-hardware)
    - [GUI Tools](#retro-sega-genesis-gui-tools)
    - [Emulators](#retro-sega-genesis-emulators)
    - [Reverse engineering](#retro-sega-genesis-reverse-engineering)
    - [Source codes](#retro-sega-genesis-source-codes)
  - [Super Nintendo (SNES)](#retro-snes)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-snes-assemblers)
    - [Command line tools](#retro-snes-command-line-tools)
    - [Compilers](#retro-snes-compilers)
    - [Devkit](#retro-snes-devkit)
    - [IDE](#retro-snes-ide)
    - [Hardware](#retro-snes-hardware)
    - [GUI Tools](#retro-snes-gui-tools)
    - [Emulators](#retro-snes-emulators)
    - [Reverse engineering](#retro-snes-reverse-engineering)
    - [Source codes](#retro-snes-source-codes)

---

## Commodore 64
### <a name = "retro-c64-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the C64*

[C6510](https://csdb.dk/release/?id=219569&show=summary) - a cross assembler with LUA macro interface<br />
[Kick Assembler](http://theweb.dk/KickAssembler/Main.html) - a cross assembler written in Java to produce 6502 code<br />

### <a name = "retro-c64-compilers"></a>Compilers

*Compilers for the C64 platform*

[CC65](https://cc65.github.io/) - a compiler to produce 6502 code<br />

## Commodore Amiga
### <a name = "retro-amiga-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the Commodore Amiga*

[VASM](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vasm/index.php?view=main) - a cross assembler to produce m68k code<br />
[VLINK](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vlink/index.php?view=main) - a portable linker to produce Amiga code<br />



## Sega Genesis
### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the Sega Genesis*

[VASM](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vasm/index.php?view=main) - a cross assembler to produce m68k code<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-command-line-tools"></a>Command line tools

*Any kind of command line tools for doing Sega Genesis development*

[Sega Genesis Rom Checksum Utility](https://github.com/mrhappyasthma/Sega-Genesis-Checksum-Utility) - Python scripts to correct the rom checksum<br />
[SVP Development Tools](https://github.com/jdesiloniz/svpdev) - Development tools to dev for the SVP chip, found in Virtua Racing cartridges<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-compilers"></a>Compilers

*Compilers for the m68k platform*

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-devkit"></a>Devkit

*Complete toolchains to develop Sega Genesis programs*

[Marsdev](https://github.com/andwn/marsdev) a complete cross platform development kit for Genesis / 32x<br />
[SGDK](https://github.com/Stephane-D/SGDK) - a complete cross platform development kit for Sega Genesis / 32x<br />

### <a name="retro-sega-genesis-ide">IDE

[genesis-code](https://github.com/zerasul/genesis-code) - Visual Studio Code Extension for Sega Genesis/ Mega Drive development.<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-hardware"></a>Hardware

*Hardware and it's firmware for the Sega Genesis*

[Genesis Dumper](https://github.com/tonyp7/GenDumper) - Open Source hardware to dump cartridges<br />
[Opendrive-Genesis](https://github.com/soniccd123/OpenDrive-Genesis) - Open Hardware Flashcard for the Sega Genesis/32X<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-gui-tools"></a>GUI Tools

*GUI tools for the Sega Genesis*

[Codemasters Image Converter](https://github.com/lab313ru/CodemastersBinImage) - Allow to extract and insert back general graphics in Codemasters games<br />
[Mega Happy Sprite](https://github.com/sigflup/Mega-Happy-Sprite) - Sprite / Scrollpane editor for the Sega Genesis<br />
[ZorroTracker](https://github.com/ZorroTrackerDev/ZorroTracker) - Music Tracker created in Electron.<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-emulators"></a>Emulators

*Emulators with development / debugging capabilities*

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-reverse-engineering"></a>Reverse engineering

*Tools to reverse engineer the Sega Genesis platform*

[bn-genesis](https://github.com/zznop/bn-genesis) - Plugins for Binary Ninja to reverse engineer Sega Genesis ROMs<br />
[Ghidra SMD loader](https://github.com/lab313ru/ghidra_sega_ldr) - Sega Genesis SMD loader for Ghidra<br />
[SMD IDA Tools](https://github.com/lab313ru/smd_ida_tools) - IDA plugin for SMD files<br />
[Scripts for IDA](https://github.com/zznop/ida-genesis) - Some scripts to support Sega Genesis RE<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-source-codes"></a>Source codes

*Any kind of source codes for the platform*

[Demo Malabars-Bumper](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Malabars-Bumper) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Demo Masiaka](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Masiaka) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Demo Zsenilla](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Zsenilia) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Genesis Debugger](https://github.com/flamewing/genesis-debugger) - Source code for a debugger on Sega Genesis<br />
[GEMS](https://github.com/realmonster/GEMS) - Sega Genesis GEMS Sound Driver<br />
[L'Abbaye des Morts](https://github.com/moon-watcher/AbbayeMD) - Source code for a Sega Genesis game<br />
[mdtracker](https://github.com/corthax/mdtracker) - Source code for a native Sega Genesis music tracker<br />

## <a name="retro-snes"></a>Super Nintendo (SNES)

### <a name = "retro-snes-source-codes"></a>Source codes

*Any kind of source codes for the platform*

[Demo-Twistit](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-twistit) - Source code for a SNES demo<br />

Commit message:

chore: Game and demo source code section

README.md, after:

# Awesome Development for retro computers and consoles

- [Awesome Development for retro computers and consoles](#awesome-retro)
  - [Commodore 64](#commodore-64)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-c64-assemblers)
    - [Compilers](#retro-c64-compilers)
  - [Commodore Amiga](#commodore-amiga)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-amiga-assemblers)
  - [Sega Genesis](#sega-genesis)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-sega-genesis-assemblers)
    - [Command line tools](#retro-sega-genesis-command-line-tools)
    - [Compilers](#retro-sega-genesis-compilers)
    - [Devkit](#retro-sega-genesis-devkit)
    - [IDE](#retro-sega-genesis-ide)
    - [Hardware](#retro-sega-genesis-hardware)
    - [GUI Tools](#retro-sega-genesis-gui-tools)
    - [Emulators](#retro-sega-genesis-emulators)
    - [Reverse engineering](#retro-sega-genesis-reverse-engineering)
    - [Demo Source codes](#retro-sega-genesis-demo-source-codes)
    - [Game Source codes](#retro-sega-genesis-game-source-codes)
  - [Super Nintendo (SNES)](#retro-snes)
    - [Assemblers](#retro-snes-assemblers)
    - [Command line tools](#retro-snes-command-line-tools)
    - [Compilers](#retro-snes-compilers)
    - [Devkit](#retro-snes-devkit)
    - [IDE](#retro-snes-ide)
    - [Hardware](#retro-snes-hardware)
    - [GUI Tools](#retro-snes-gui-tools)
    - [Emulators](#retro-snes-emulators)
    - [Reverse engineering](#retro-snes-reverse-engineering)
    - [Demo source codes](#retro-snes-demo-source-codes)

---

## Commodore 64
### <a name = "retro-c64-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the C64*

[C6510](https://csdb.dk/release/?id=219569&show=summary) - a cross assembler with LUA macro interface<br />
[Kick Assembler](http://theweb.dk/KickAssembler/Main.html) - a cross assembler written in Java to produce 6502 code<br />

### <a name = "retro-c64-compilers"></a>Compilers

*Compilers for the C64 platform*

[CC65](https://cc65.github.io/) - a compiler to produce 6502 code<br />

## Commodore Amiga
### <a name = "retro-amiga-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the Commodore Amiga*

[VASM](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vasm/index.php?view=main) - a cross assembler to produce m68k code<br />
[VLINK](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vlink/index.php?view=main) - a portable linker to produce Amiga code<br />



## Sega Genesis
### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-assemblers"></a>Assemblers

*Tools to program assembler on the Sega Genesis*

[VASM](http://sun.hasenbraten.de/vasm/index.php?view=main) - a cross assembler to produce m68k code<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-command-line-tools"></a>Command line tools

*Any kind of command line tools for doing Sega Genesis development*

[Sega Genesis Rom Checksum Utility](https://github.com/mrhappyasthma/Sega-Genesis-Checksum-Utility) - Python scripts to correct the rom checksum<br />
[SVP Development Tools](https://github.com/jdesiloniz/svpdev) - Development tools to dev for the SVP chip, found in Virtua Racing cartridges<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-compilers"></a>Compilers

*Compilers for the m68k platform*

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-devkit"></a>Devkit

*Complete toolchains to develop Sega Genesis programs*

[Marsdev](https://github.com/andwn/marsdev) a complete cross platform development kit for Genesis / 32x<br />
[SGDK](https://github.com/Stephane-D/SGDK) - a complete cross platform development kit for Sega Genesis / 32x<br />

### <a name="retro-sega-genesis-ide">IDE

[genesis-code](https://github.com/zerasul/genesis-code) - Visual Studio Code Extension for Sega Genesis/ Mega Drive development.<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-hardware"></a>Hardware

*Hardware and it's firmware for the Sega Genesis*

[Genesis Dumper](https://github.com/tonyp7/GenDumper) - Open Source hardware to dump cartridges<br />
[Opendrive-Genesis](https://github.com/soniccd123/OpenDrive-Genesis) - Open Hardware Flashcard for the Sega Genesis/32X<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-gui-tools"></a>GUI Tools

*GUI tools for the Sega Genesis*

[Codemasters Image Converter](https://github.com/lab313ru/CodemastersBinImage) - Allow to extract and insert back general graphics in Codemasters games<br />
[Mega Happy Sprite](https://github.com/sigflup/Mega-Happy-Sprite) - Sprite / Scrollpane editor for the Sega Genesis<br />
[ZorroTracker](https://github.com/ZorroTrackerDev/ZorroTracker) - Music Tracker created in Electron.<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-emulators"></a>Emulators

*Emulators with development / debugging capabilities*

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-reverse-engineering"></a>Reverse engineering

*Tools to reverse engineer the Sega Genesis platform*

[bn-genesis](https://github.com/zznop/bn-genesis) - Plugins for Binary Ninja to reverse engineer Sega Genesis ROMs<br />
[Ghidra SMD loader](https://github.com/lab313ru/ghidra_sega_ldr) - Sega Genesis SMD loader for Ghidra<br />
[SMD IDA Tools](https://github.com/lab313ru/smd_ida_tools) - IDA plugin for SMD files<br />
[Scripts for IDA](https://github.com/zznop/ida-genesis) - Some scripts to support Sega Genesis RE<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-demo-source-codes"></a>Source codes

*Any kind of source codes for the platform*

[Demo Malabars-Bumper](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Malabars-Bumper) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Demo Masiaka](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Masiaka) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Demo Zsenilla](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-Zsenilia) - Source code for a Sega Genesis demo<br />
[Genesis Debugger](https://github.com/flamewing/genesis-debugger) - Source code for a debugger on Sega Genesis<br />
[GEMS](https://github.com/realmonster/GEMS) - Sega Genesis GEMS Sound Driver<br />
[L'Abbaye des Morts](https://github.com/moon-watcher/AbbayeMD) - Source code for a Sega Genesis game<br />
[mdtracker](https://github.com/corthax/mdtracker) - Source code for a native Sega Genesis music tracker<br />

### <a name = "retro-sega-genesis-game-source-codes"></a>Game Source codes

*Source codes for games on the platform*
[Sonic the Hedgehog 1 - C port](https://github.com/cuckydev/SoniCPort) - Source code for a C port of Sonic the Hedgehog 1<br />

## <a name="retro-snes"></a>Super Nintendo (SNES)

### <a name = "retro-snes-demo-source-codes"></a>Source codes

*Any kind of source codes for the platform*

[Demo-Twistit](https://github.com/ResistanceVault/demo-twistit) - Source code for a SNES demo<br />
